Hi.
Welcome to What's New In The File System.
I'm Deric Horn.
I manage the engineering team
that works on the filesystem.
So today we're going to cover
a whole bunch of small topics
around the file system.
Starting with some of the file system
updates with regards to frameworks,
system architecture,
talk about what some of the
trends are in the industry,
recent changes are that we've
made to the file system.
I'm not allowed to talk about
all the changes that we've made
to the file system because some
of them haven't come out yet.
Then we'll talk about a number of
best practices that hopefully you
can take advantage of in your apps
or your tools or your file systems.
And then we're going to spend the
last part of the section talking about
FileVault 2 or full disk encryption.
We'll talk a little bit about what it is.
And then I'll bring Soren on stage
to talk about exactly how it works.
[Transcript missing]
Like I mentioned, it's best to use those
highest level APIs,
but as you can see,
you're free to use any of those
APIs all the way down the stack.
So whether or not you're writing
a Cocoa application or even
a UIKit-based application,
you're free to use those BSD-based APIs,
the opens, closes, stats, and so forth.
So let's talk a little bit about what the
filesystems are or what a filesystem is.
I think typically when
you look at Mac OS X,
people think we have one filesystem,
and that's HFS+. But in reality,
we support six different filesystems.
So back in Snow Leopard,
we added support for ExFAT.
If you buy a camera today,
typically they have an SDXC card in them,
and those cards are high
density and very fast.
So in order to support those,
we added support in
Snow Leopard for ExFAT.
FAT is another interchange format
that we've supported for a long time.
So if you have friends that are working
at a fast-paced company like the DMV and
you want to interchange with them,
you could always use a
thumb drive format as FAT.
HFS.
So we actually have two flavors of HFS.
One that we call HFS standard.
And this is the really ancient format.
HFS standard is the
standard of our filesystem.
HFS standard.
Back in Lion, we turned it to read only.
So if you have any floppy
disks and you want to use them,
we'll still support
them in Mountain Lion,
but they're going to be read only,
and now we spit a log message
out that says that HFS standard
has been deprecated.
HFS+ is our hallmark filesystem.
It's the one that we use everywhere now.
So we actually use
journaled HFS+ everywhere.
The journal means that you can
pull the power at any time,
and your filesystem is still intact.
There shouldn't be any data corruption
or any volume corruption on that.
So that's the standard.
So we're going to talk about HFS+ now.
We're going to talk about HFS+ now.
volume corruption on that disk.
Going right along,
we also support NTFS as read-only.
So that's primarily for boot camp.
You can go ahead and have
your Windows partition,
your Mac partition,
be able to read that boot camp
partition from your Mac partition.
And UDF.
We require UDF for DVDs, reads,
and writes.
So one of the things that's a big
advantage to us is that we support the
same code base on iOS and Mac OS X.
And that really has been beneficial
to us by just having a few really good
engineers working on this code base.
As we fix bugs on one platform,
they're automatically fixed
on the other platform.
Or as we add performance
improvements on one platform,
the other platform gets
to take advantage of them.
Like an example of that was Trim.
Trim is a command that we
can send down to the SSD.
Basically,
it's a call that lets the SSD know we're
not going to use these blocks anymore.
And it can go ahead and do
its own garbage collection,
its own cleaning,
and actually improve the
lifespan by doing that.
And by adding that on one platform,
the other one gets to
take advantage of it.
I'd say the one minor difference
between what we support on the desktop
and the phone is that on the phone
we use what's called a case-sensitive
version of HFS+. The main reason we
did that is so that we can reduce the
overall footprint by not carrying around
these case folding tables with us.
So the phone is case-sensitive.
The things to keep in
mind about that are,
for instance,
if you're doing iCloud synchronizations,
you're working on the same
documents on your phone or your
iPad as you are on your Mac,
it's perfectly fine to create two
documents in the same directory
on your iPad that are called
"hello," one all lowercase,
one all uppercase.
But if you're going to try and sync
those with your Mac on the other side,
you're going to have a collision.
We have case-insensitive
on HFS+ on the Mac.
The only other place where we
really have case-sensitivity on the
Mac is on your time machine backups.
By default,
those are also case-sensitive.
You're free to use it.
You're free to format a
drive as case-sensitive,
but typically coming out of the factory,
they're case-insensitive on the desktops.
Okay, so that was a little bit about the
filesystem and the frameworks updates,
what they are,
just to give you a brief overview.
Now I'm going to talk
about some of the more,
I think, more interesting parts,
some of the storage industry trends.
So not necessarily what
we're doing at Apple,
but some of the trends that
we see across the industry.
The first one that you've seen
is that machines are moving
away from your typical spinning
hard drives and towards SSDs.
And this is, I think, kind of a -- well,
it's kind of a pun -- but kind
of a revolutionary change that
we're seeing in the industry.
I mean,
I think about every 12 to 14 months,
the speed of these SSDs is doubling.
So it's really incredible.
Where the speed of your
processor isn't doubling,
we're really making
huge improvements here.
And that contributes to the overall
performance of your machine,
especially as you page
in and out of these SSDs.
Something you see across the industry
is these SSDs are slowly moving over
towards a PCI-based controller rather
than SATA bus for better performance.
One of the two biggest
advantages I see to SSDs is
for the random I/O performance.
Random I/O on SSDs is about 100 times
faster than what you get on a hard drive.
But the thing that's hard for me
to completely wrap my mind against,
maybe it's because I come from software,
is that although they look like
they're doing a lot better,
we're getting a lot faster,
for some reason,
the write cycles are going down.
So that means as you write
to the same area of this SSD,
it will start to -- I don't know what
the right word is -- disintegrate.
It will start to go bad.
So they're coming up to a place
now where you can only write
to this particular cell on an
SSD 3,000 times before it goes bad.
So behind the scenes we do
a lot of shuffling around.
So if you think you're writing
in the same area of the SSD,
they're actually moving this around,
waving their hands around so it's
actually getting spread across the disk.
But that's one interesting thing
and a concern that we have and we're
trying to improve on that as well.
There's also security concerns.
Like I mentioned,
if I write to one block on an SSD,
behind the scenes it's
actually moving that around.
So if I think that I've written
some critical data here and I go
to do a clean wipe on writing
zeros all over that block again,
I may think I've erased that from my SSD,
but you might have a grad student
somewhere that hooks up their
thesis project and they're able
to read directly from these SSDs,
they can actually find out that this
has been moved to several other blocks
in the SSD and pull the data out.
So several interesting areas
revolving around SSDs that we
have to take into consideration.
And lastly,
they're also more expensive than that.
So I think that's a really good point.
They're also more
expensive than hard drives.
So what does that mean to
filesystems and what we're doing?
I think first off,
with that fast random I/O,
that kind of opens up a lot
more opportunity for us.
It makes it more -- it adds a lot more
flexibility in the design decisions
that we're going to make going forward.
If we don't have to worry about
defragmentation so much or
keeping those files and those
data structures contiguous,
it allows us some more opportunity.
Also, because it's trending towards,
as I mentioned, these fewer write cycles,
we have to be cognizant of that.
One way that we do that is now we
start to send those trim commands down.
By having the filesystem send
a trim command down to the SSD,
that lets that SSD know that
I'm not going to be using
this area of your SSD anymore.
You are free to go ahead
and assume that it's empty.
You don't have to move
these blocks around.
You don't have to
shuffle anything around.
So it actually improves the lifespan of
your SSD and actually makes it faster.
and I think the one thing
you can take away from this,
whether you're working on an SSD,
whatever your application is,
or a hard drive,
large sequential writes are always
better than a lot of small random writes.
You're always going to
get better performance.
Another trend that we see
is in distributed storage.
Kind of what we've seen over the
last couple of years is that our
data is getting bigger and bigger.
We're taking more digital photos,
have more music and so forth.
But the devices that we use,
they're still relatively small.
I mean, our phones are now at most
around 64 gigabytes or so.
So that's a small window into our data.
So what we're going to see a lot
more of is more distributed storage.
And that means that I'm going to see
a window of my data on my iPad or
my iPhone or even my MacBook Air.
And as I need to reference
those songs or those pictures,
they'll start to come
down from the cloud.
Something else we see is that users
are getting more devices more often.
So we have to take into
consideration backup,
restore and migration.
And when we store things in the cloud,
we always have to recognize that we
have to be cognizant of secure backups,
efficient backups and also deduplication.
That's kind of a fancy term for
meaning if we all own the same song,
up in the cloud we only have to keep
one of those songs and let you all know.
note, and then when you reference it,
you'll have access to that song.
Okay, so that was a little bit about the
storage industry trends as a whole.
Now I'll talk about some of
the recent changes that we've
been making in the filesystem.
So the first one,
this was actually introduced
back in Mac OS 10.4,
but I just wanted to let
everybody know about it.
This is kind of one of those little
nuggets if you're looking for -- if
you have a certain problem and this
might present a solution for you.
And it's extended attributes.
I don't think this is used
nearly enough by developers.
Extended attributes are a way of
leaving like little breadcrumbs
of data behind on a file.
So if you're sharing a file
between different applications,
maybe it's a PDF file.
So you have many applications
that can open this up.
And you want to leave a little
breadcrumb along that said,
like, for instance,
you're the author of it or my
application touched this last.
But I don't want to interfere with
the format of that file itself.
You can attach an
extended attribute to it.
We have a pretty simple API set.
It's just really four of them.
That's all you need to be able
to get an extended attribute,
set an extended attribute,
list them to see which ones are
there or if you want to remove one.
In the terminal, if you type in LS minus
L with the at sign,
that at sign specifies list
out all my extended attributes.
So I did this on some of my files.
And you can see typically you're going
to store 32 bytes of finder info.
That's going to contain some
things like the label that
you have attached to the file.
On mine,
I think I listed off my tax filing.
So you can see Intuit attaches a
little breadcrumb on there that
talks about my filing status.
and in the past, before Lion,
extended attributes
were limited to only 4K.
So I think that's one of the reasons why
they didn't get a whole lot of adoption.
It's hard to find what you
want to store in under 4K.
So starting in Lion,
we increased the size of our
extended attributes to be 128K.
I want to give a little
bit of guidelines,
some pros and cons of using
the extended attributes,
the guidelines when you should use them.
I think that they're ideal for
storing those little bits of metadata
or what I call those breadcrumbs,
things like author, the window position,
the window rectangle,
the history of this file.
You can even attach extended
attributes onto directories.
But kind of the one con of them,
or the one thing to be aware of,
is I wouldn't recommend you
storing application critical
data in extended attributes.
I think application critical
data should always be stored
in the data fork of your file.
The reason being is we live in a kind of
a heterogeneous environment where we're
copying files around across the web,
uploading them into Safari,
across different people's machines.
And as you do that,
not all different file transfer
protocols or volume formats
support extended attributes.
So as we move them around,
we actually have to split
them off into two files.
And if at any point we
lose one of those files,
the file containing all
that extra information,
what I call these dot underbar files,
you then lose all of
your extended attributes.
You know,
if another application opens up this file
that you're working on and it decides to
rip out all those extended attributes,
you can lose them.
So I think it's perfect for storing
little bits of metadata around that
make the user experience better,
but I wouldn't store your critical
data as an extended attribute.
And kind of last note on here,
just to take note,
is that if you store a small
bit of metadata under 4K,
we actually pack those
into the attributes B-tree.
So we don't even allocate a
full allocation block on disk.
If you want to store a couple bytes,
we only allocate a couple bytes
to store that information.
So I want to talk about a couple
of API sets that we've deprecated
and what the replacements are.
So these are some other recent changes.
So starting in Mountain Lion,
the way that you mount
servers has been changed,
and basically it's been modernized.
We've replaced the option bits
with more modern dictionaries.
We've replaced the CF run loops with
more modern GCD dispatch queues.
So we have the FSMountServerVolumeSync,
which used to take option bits,
now takes a dictionary.
What used to take a run loop
now takes a dispatch queue.
Another API set, just a drill at home,
is the file manager has been deprecated.
And this is what I said is the
old Carbon file manager or old
core services file manager.
So when you used to get
metadata about files,
you used to call something
called like FS get catalog info
or FS get catalog info bulk.
And when you call this on a file,
you're going to go ahead and get,
for instance, the name of the file,
the modification date,
the creation dates, and a bunch of other
metadata associated with it.
Those have been replaced by
more modern property-based APIs,
so the CF copy resource
properties for keys API.
and also to note that those newer
APIs are available on iOS where the old
file manager calls aren't available.
So those are some of the recent changes.
Now I'd like to talk about some of
the best practices and kind of some
tips for you when you're trying to
eke out the best performance from your
application or out of the filesystem.
Throttled IO.
So sometimes in your application you
want to do something in the background.
You don't want it to interfere with
what the user is currently doing.
You don't want to interfere with the user
experience that's going on right now.
So if I'm writing an application that
has some sophisticated workflow to it
and I'm manipulating some data right
now and at the same time maybe I want
to create backups of that document,
I probably want to create those
backups in the background.
I don't want it to interfere with
what the user is currently doing now.
So one way to do that is to say I want
to do this in a throttled IO way.
This means that when the user
has their hands off the keyboard,
I can create those, I can go ahead and
compress those backups,
move them off to the side
and so forth at full speed,
but when they're using the
computer and they're using data,
reading in new data,
I want to kind of throttle that back.
And that's what we call throttled IO.
Typically on the system today we
use that in a number of places.
You'll see it in, for instance,
spotlight, time machine backups,
background encryption.
So, for instance,
if you turn on full disk encryption,
if you turn on -- If you're
not using your machine,
we will go ahead and encrypt those
blocks as fast as we possibly can.
But as soon as you put your hands on the
machine and start copying files around,
we scale it way back and
start moving very slow.
That's what throttled IO is.
So if you have a need to do something
in the background or throttle your IO,
the best way to do that, I would say,
is to use the grand central dispatch
IO background queue mechanism.
Any IO that you do on the
background queue will automatically
be marked as throttled.
The next topic I want to talk about
is kind of what I call playing nicely.
Playing nicely with others.
Memory on your system
is a shared resource.
We have a small amount of memory.
Maybe we have four gigabytes
of memory on your system.
And we have a large drive.
So every application, VM and so forth,
is vying to use that
memory on that system.
You're paging in and out from memory.
When you read blocks off the disk,
they're being stored in memory.
So you don't want to be a bad citizen
and blow everybody else's cash.
Right?
Kind of what I mean by that is if
I have a number of applications,
they're all reading and
writing their files.
But what really happens is
they've got a large amount
of reads and writes going on,
but most of those are
already held in the cache,
in the universal buffer cache.
So we actually have to do very
little IO down to the disk.
This becomes very important,
especially if you have a slow disk.
This is what it usually looks like.
Now, if I've just written my first
application and I want to read a large
file to play my own type of a movie,
for instance,
I come along and I say I want
to read four gigabytes.
Next thing you know,
it reads four gigabytes and it fills up
my whole cache and blows everybody out.
So that's kind of a bad citizen.
That's what you don't want to do.
Then when those applications go
ahead and become active again,
they want to go ahead and
access their files again,
and they have to do a lot
of I/O down to the disk,
and they blow you out of the cache now.
So what you're doing is creating
this pattern of everyone's
just thrashing on memory,
on the universal buffer cache.
So that's where the F no
cache bit comes along.
For I/O that you're
only going to read once,
especially large I/O,
it's best to mark it as F no cache.
This would be being a good citizen.
That means I want to read this data,
but don't put it in the cache.
Don't use up all those
extra buffers in the cache.
I'm not going to read it again.
So if you mark your I/O as F no cache,
that same application
reads it right from disk,
and everybody's happy.
So that's F no cache.
Next performance tip,
kind of like Costco,
you're always going to get a
better deal if you buy in bulk.
And the better performance that you get,
the better battery life
you're also going to get.
That's just a general rule of thumb.
If you're going to go, for instance,
buy six bottles of wine,
you don't make six trips to the store,
you make one trip,
you buy the six bottles
and you get your discount.
Here are a few APIs to use if
you're going to go ahead and
try to get a lot of information.
Same thing,
you don't want to iterate through
a bunch of files in the directory
getting information about them.
You want to get it
So the first one from the
application perspective is searching.
So this is kind of related to Spotlight.
The NSSearch field is typically
that field that you see at the
top of Windows that's kind of that
oval with a magnifying glass in it.
That's your NSSearch field.
And the way it typically works is
through the NSMetadataQuery APIs.
Those link down into
your Spotlight database.
So the way that works is you
build up what's called a bunch
of predicates if you're writing a
UI kit or app kit-based application.
Basically, you would say, for instance,
you build up your predicates.
So you say,
show me all presentations that
I've created in the last week
that are over five megabytes.
So you create these three predicates.
You hook them to your NSMetadataQuery,
and it will just go ahead and
return back everything in bulk for
you for you to iterate through.
The other topic I want to talk about
is filesystem notification changes.
So this is a very powerful
concept called FSEvents.
We always get requests that say
how do I tell if a file has changed
somewhere in the filesystem?
I want to see this and I want to
know when this file has changed.
Maybe it's in the directory,
maybe it's anywhere on
the whole filesystem.
And the best way to do
that is with FSEvents.
FS events work in two different ways.
You can either pull for those events or
else you can have them delivered to you.
So the two ways that we
use them in the system,
for instance,
one of them is in Time Machine.
So every hour
Time Machine runs and it says,
I want to know about all the
filesystem changes that have
happened in the last hour.
So it runs and we go ahead and
return back this big long list.
Now, kind of to talk a little bit
about the history of that,
before Lion, that big long list was
just a list of directories,
and it was up to Time Machine to
figure out which one of those
files in the directory has changed.
Now, with Lion and later, when it says,
tell me all the filesystem changes
that have happened in the last hour,
we actually return back a long
list of every file that's changed.
It then goes ahead and says,
I want to back up just these files.
It doesn't have to iterate through
every single file in the source,
every single file in your directory
and figure out which ones have changed.
It just asks for the changes.
So that's the polling method.
Give me all the things that
have changed in the last hour.
The push method, for instance,
would be where the finder comes in.
So when you have a finder window open,
the finder has FSEvents
on that directory.
So if, for instance,
someone else on a different
computer copies something into
that directory or creates a file,
FSEvents then says, hey, look,
I've created this new file,
finder gets a notification,
and it draws the icon.
So it works in two
different methods there,
either pull or push.
And the last one also is
kind of goes along with the
first one with the searching,
is if you want to get a bunch of
metadata at one time about files.
People typically do this.
They look through directories worth
of files to look for the metadata.
You can use those URL-based
APIs that I mentioned earlier.
And those are all bulk-based.
So once you get the results,
you create an enumerator and just
enumerate through all the results.
Okay, this is one of my favorite ones.
If you've ever seen this
before in your application,
You know, it's not a good sign.
And there's only really one
reason why you'll ever see what we
call a spod on your application.
And the only reason you ever see
this is if you haven't serviced your
event queue in the last two seconds.
So that means basically you haven't
checked to see if there's something
new for you off the event queue.
This is almost maybe selfish,
but my engineers get tons of these
bugs all the time where it says,
you know, the filesystem's broken,
I was doing something,
and I see the spinning cursor,
and my engineers spend all
sorts of time looking at it,
and they go, well, it's not broken.
You know, maybe we're just waiting
for your disk to spin up.
With some computers,
it takes up to 10 seconds
for these disks to spin up.
You're on your main
thread trying to do UI,
and we're waiting for
this disk to spin up,
and someone thinks it's a filesystem bug.
It's not a filesystem bug.
I think the crux of this is that you
have to be able to expect large latencies
from whenever you're getting files.
Whether you're trying to get information
from a file across a network or
a hard drive that's spun down,
this could happen.
So what you should always do is
get your UI -- or excuse me --
get your I/O off the main thread.
There's a number of
different ways to do this.
You can do it through
Grand Central Dispatch to create
another thread to do that,
NSOperation is built on top of GCD,
that's another way.
There's also a method called, like,
perform selector on thread.
That's probably the easiest way to
get your I/O off your main thread.
Your main thread or your UI thread should
really only be used for two things,
and that's to pull events off
the queue and to update your UI.
Otherwise,
you're susceptible to getting your spots.
I just want to talk a little bit
about the NS File Coordinator.
If you're working with iCloud,
you're going to have
some contact with this.
The NS File Coordinator basically
serializes access to a file.
This becomes important because,
for instance,
if I'm writing an application like Pages,
I'm updating a file.
And this file is going to get
synchronized to the cloud.
So while my process, Pages,
is updating this file,
I have another process that's called
the iCloud daemon that's trying to read
this file and upload it to the cloud.
Or possibly it sees a newer version of
that file and it's trying to download it
from the cloud back down onto my disk.
So we have to serialize
the access to this file.
And we do that through
the NS file coordinator.
So if you create a file presenter,
that basically means let me know when
there's been a change to that file.
So to put this in context,
if I'm Pages and I have this
beautiful document up here and
I'm working with someone else,
and I have a picture
up here in the corner,
someone else may update that picture.
When they do that,
I'm going to get called
through my file presenter and
says there's been an update.
Now it's my responsibility in my
application to go ahead and throw away,
to deallocate everything
I've had with that file,
read it off disk again,
and update all those data structures
again so I get the new picture.
If you don't use this method,
you're going to be fighting each other.
You're both going to be saving
changes over each other.
So the coordinator helps you coordinate
changes from multiple sources.
Also, again, if you're using
UI document or NS document,
you get a lot of this for free.
It automatically takes care of
the file coordination for you.
Okay, so this one,
now I'm slowly getting a
little bit more technical.
This is one of my favorite tools.
There's two ways to analyze
performance of your filesystem.
You can do it through instruments
and instruments will call the
tool FSUsage or you can go right
to the terminal and call FSUsage.
I'm just curious,
how many of you out there
have ever run FSUsage?
Great.
Okay.
This is great.
I heard like 60% of the people
were new to the conference.
I thought nobody's probably
heard of FSUsage before.
It's a great tool.
Especially if you're having problems
with your -- if you want to analyze
the file system performance or
see where your bottlenecks are.
You run something like FSUsage and you
see a whole lot of text come through.
And all that text is actually --
it's pretty impressive to me because
that means that we've got so many
different processes all doing activity
at the same time in the file system.
So that's another place where
it's really important for us to
make sure that we keep things
very tight inside the file system,
keep our data structures small and
allow as many threads to access our data
structures as possible at the same time.
So you see a lot of
activity come through.
It's easy to kind of trim this down.
If you specify the name of your
application in the command line,
in this case, TextEdit,
it will weed out all
that extra information.
So I just see the file system activity
that's responsible for what I'm looking
at and that's my application text.
Excedit.
So in this case, all I did here at 2
o'clock in the afternoon,
all I did was do a safe
save of a document.
I had a file open, I made some changes,
and I hit Command-S,
and I captured the FS usage.
So I just kind of wanted to walk
through it with you to show you
a little bit how to use FS usage
for your own applications.
So the first thing that you notice
is we have this 2 over here.
That's an error code.
That's an enoint error.
That means that this file does not exist.
So to take a step back,
this is probably actually expected
because the way the safe save works,
if I have my existing document here,
what NSDocument does for me
is it creates a brand-new copy
of the document over here.
So I've got my old document here,
brand-new copy of my document here,
and then the last step,
it does a rename to just
replace the original one.
We do it this way because at
any point during this process,
if I were to pull the
plug on the machine,
I will have a consistent
version of that document.
So it's either all the old version of
the document or all the new version.
I never end up with something that's
half-written when I pull that plug.
So probably here when we get this enoint,
it's probably saying, like,
I'm going to create this temporary file.
Does it exist yet?
Because I want to create a
file that doesn't exist yet.
So now let's go ahead and
examine some of the other,
I think, more interesting calls in what
we're looking at here just to kind
of walk through what the output is.
The first field of the output,
here we're going to open it,
write the file, sync it to disk,
make sure everything's out on the disk,
and then we're going to rename
it over the top of the file.
So we opened it up at 2:06,
that's the time stamp
where we opened it up.
The system call that we made
was a write in this case.
And we know that it
took 0.000018 seconds.
So it's very quick.
And then we have the
application of thread ID.
One thing to take away from all
this is that I'm able to save
in about 1/300 of a second.
So the filesystem is something that
we see a lot -- kind of like memory,
where we see a lot of people
beating it on at the same time,
and it's very important and critical that
we perform it as quickly as possible.
So that's a little bit
about how to use FS Usage.
Kind of the takeaway is if you're
having filesystem performance
problems or you suspect it,
I recommend that you run FS Usage.
It's enlightening to see all the
things that are going on in the
system when you run FS Usage,
just to see everything that's
going on in the system,
maybe not only in your application,
but it's pretty impressive to
see everything that happens,
and you can easily identify
where you're spending your time.
Now that I've talked about a
lot of the filesystem proper,
I'd like to talk about FileVault 2,
or what we call full disk encryption.
I'll talk about what it is and then
we'll have Sorin come up afterwards
and talk about how it works.
So before we started
the FileVault 2 project,
or what we call full-disk encryption,
I've seen a lot of quotes like this.
We have entire websites
dedicated to things like this.
A thief recently stole a computer
server belonging to a major U.S.
insurance company,
and company officials now fear
that the personal data of nearly
1 million people could be at risk.
California has a law,
as well as 41 other states,
that require you,
if you lose someone's personal data,
require you to let that person
know and also let the state know.
So this becomes a very big PR issue for
companies if they start to lose social
security numbers or credit card issues.
So we thought, well,
this is a big problem.
Let's go ahead and try and solve it.
How hard could it be, right?
Right?
I mean, we saw some solutions out there.
They looked like they were okay,
but we thought we could do better.
We thought, you know, you take data,
you encrypt data, you store it on disk.
Once you get it, you read it off disk,
you unencrypt it,
and you return it back to the user.
It seems like a simple problem.
We can knock this one out.
So we started drawing
it out on a whiteboard,
and we got something like this.
All of a sudden we noticed, like, okay,
we're going to have to write code in EFI,
we're going to have to
write a lot of kernel code,
write user space code,
user space library code.
We didn't have anything
related to key management.
We hadn't thought about that part yet.
That's in there.
And then we needed a bunch of
these applications on top to be
modified to work with this too.
So it quickly became much
more complicated than what
we originally thought.
But one of the big benefits, I think,
of working at Apple is that we're able
to develop these integrated big solutions
and integrate it right into the system.
So I kind of want to diverge a little
bit from FDE for one slide and talk
about something right at the middle,
and that's this component right here.
That's what we call CoreStorage.
And that's the piece that I was
talking about where we thought we
can go ahead and encrypt all the
data and do the decryption of it.
So to take a closer look at how
that works and what CoreStorage is,
Basically, where it fits in the stack,
if you think about it,
HFS+ would be at the top over there.
That's your logical volume, Mac HD.
And then beneath that,
we have this whole layer
called CoreStorage.
You could think of it like a disk driver
or like a block storage device driver.
This whole layer that's going to go ahead
and intercept all the data being written
from HFS+ going down to your drive.
And then at the bottom,
we have the actual drive itself.
So if you look at the way it works,
we have our top secret
document over there.
We shuffle it down into CoreStorage
where we're going to encrypt it.
And we actually go ahead and move
it to a different place on disk.
And that's what the
address tree is about.
We move it to a slightly
different location.
But we're finding that
we can take this layer,
this CoreStorage layer,
and it has a whole bunch of
possibilities that we have here.
Encryption is just one of them.
This is a place we're hoping to
develop feature after feature for
our users and where we're spending
a lot of time doing new development.
So stay tuned to this layer,
and hopefully we'll have a lot
of new information for you.
Now back to FileVault 2.
A little bit about what FileVault 2 is,
if you haven't used it yet.
It password protects your entire volume,
like full disk encryption
or whole disk encryption.
It encrypts every block on your volume,
so like you saw in that last picture,
it doesn't just encrypt
your payload data,
it also encrypts your metadata.
In fact, we go through every single
block of your HFS+ volume,
whether it's free space or use space,
and we encrypt them all
from one end to the other.
We also support encryption
on external drives,
so this becomes really cool
if you have a thumb drive,
you can go ahead and
format it as encrypted,
we can store that key in your key chain,
or your password in your key chain,
that means whenever you put that
thumb drive in your computer,
it just mounts,
but if someone steals it from you and
they stick it in their own computer,
they'll be prompted for password
and it's thoroughly encrypted.
And we also support encrypted
time machine backups.
So we use a method called
AES XTS for our encryption.
It's basically AES 128
with some cipher stealing.
What the cipher stealing means is that
we encrypt out of a 512-byte block,
we encrypt the first 16 bytes,
we get the result of that,
and we mix it into the next 16 bytes,
and we mix that into the next 16 bytes,
and so forth, all the way along.
The AES XDS is FIPS compliant.
It's also what NIST recommends.
So as of January 2010,
this was the most modern,
best method that they recommended
for encrypting data at rest.
So I think that what we've delivered is,
I think, sets the standard for encryption
as well as performance.
So one question I get, though, a lot,
though, is how can we use AES 128 and not
this new thing called AES 256?
So I ask you, how big is 2 to the 128th?
So I kind of have a quote here
that I want to read to kind of
set it in perspective so you
know the difference between 2
to the 128th and 2 to the 256th.
Imagine a computer the size of a grain
of sand that could test a key in the
amount of time it takes for light
to cross that little grain of sand.
If the whole planet were covered in
a meter of these little computers,
it would take on average 1,000
years to crack a 128-bit key.
So 2 to the 128th is, I think,
as close to infinity
as you're going to get.
When you're talking about
cracking encrypted volumes,
people never talk about
cracking the keys.
They talk about cracking passwords.
I heard a good quote before,
and it's a lot easier just to go out
and buy a $10 wrench to get someone's
password than it is to crack their key.
So what is FileVault 2?
One of the things that I'm most proud of,
I think,
with the FileVault 2 project is the
way it integrates the whole system and
the fit and finish that we put onto it.
A couple of examples are
we have this feature called
Treat First Reboot Special.
So when you enable
full disk encryption...
and the rest of the team.
You're going to be prompted
for your password at EFI time.
It looks just like the
real Cocoa login window,
but we actually present that at
EFI login time as soon as you reboot.
So sometimes your keyboards
don't always work from EFI.
If I've got a third-party input device
that runs through some different
type of a router and so forth,
it doesn't always match up.
Sometimes my Bluetooth keyboard
isn't paired correctly.
Or one thing that we get a lot, in fact,
when I called up AppleCare,
I think the number one call driver
was people that owned iMacs or
people that enabled password
login and forgot their passwords.
So we wanted to be very sure that when
you enable full disk encryption that
you're able to at least remember your
password or help you along a little bit,
and we're not just going to completely
encrypt your data before you get
a chance to type in your password.
So we treat the first reboot special.
We turn on CoreStorage, we reboot,
and we immediately ask
you for your password.
If you're having trouble
typing in the password or if
you've forgotten your password,
what we do is go ahead and
reboot into the recovery OS.
You can disable FileVault
2 or you can change your
password because at this point,
no encryption has been done.
As soon as you type your
password in the first time,
that's when we start encryption,
and that's when all bets are off.
but actually not all bets are off
because we have this other feature
that is called the recovery password.
When you enable full disk encryption,
the first thing it does is
print out a long ASCII string
of your recovery password.
What that really is,
is kind of your fail safe.
If you have forgotten your own password,
you can write this down
and keep it in your safe.
Something else you can do, though,
is we have an option where
you can store it with Apple.
It doesn't actually store your
recovery password with Apple.
The next step it does is ask you
three banker-style questions,
you know, what street did you grow up on,
who is your favorite teacher,
what's your pet's first name.
It takes all of these answers and
encrypts that recovery password and
stores that encrypted blob up with Apple.
So the next time you can go
up and call AppleCare and say
I've forgotten my password,
can you help me in the
last three questions?
If you know the answers
to those three questions,
they'll read off your recovery password.
If you don't, though,
there's no way to get
back in your computer.
It doesn't matter who you are.
There's nothing Apple can do.
There's no back door.
That machine is cryptographically
wiped for all intents and purposes.
Okay, so that was a little bit
about what FileVault is.
Now I'd like to bring Soren
Spies on stage to talk a little
bit more about how it works.
So, FileVault 2, we got CoreStorage,
we got HFS, we got encrypted data,
we got unencrypted data.
How do we get there?
How do we set it up?
How does it work?
My name is Soren Spies.
I work in storage technologies
with Deric and I had a lot of fun
putting all this stuff together and
now hopefully explain it to you.
So, first of all, I want to talk a little
bit more about CoreStorage,
in particular how it does
the in-place encryption.
Then I want to talk about
FileVault 2's key hierarchy,
how we make it so that multiple people's
passwords can unlock a single disk.
Also,
we're going to talk about how we secure
those keys to make it hard to attack.
We also are going to talk about
tools that you can manipulate
CoreStorage FTE volumes with.
And finally, I just have one little list
of requests to try to guide.
We get a lot of different requests
for full disk encryption in FileVault
2 and I want to try to guide those
in a way that's more user-friendly.
So, first of all, at the low level,
you run DiskUtil List.
How many people know how
to run DiskUtil List?
Yes.
Okay.
You're in the right session.
So, in the old days,
you just had your disk zero and
you had a bunch of partitions.
You probably noticed we added
this Apple boot partition in Lion.
We store the recovery OS in there.
But we also store what we call
the boot not equal to root pieces.
Those are the unencrypted bits that we
need in order to boot something fancy
like CoreStorage full disk encryption.
So, in the old days,
we had this Apple boot partition.
We store the recovery OS in there.
But we also store what we call
the boot not equal to root pieces.
Those are the unencrypted bits that we
need in order to boot something fancy
like CoreStorage full disk encryption.
So the input is sort of this
disk zero S2 in the slide,
and then the output is
this new virtual disk,
disk one,
and that's the unencrypted data.
So when it's locked, there's no disk one.
But as soon as you do the unlock,
then this disk one comes out,
and it's partition type, you'll notice,
is Apple HFS.
So it is an unencrypted volume
that just mounts like any other.
So from an application perspective,
there's no specialness for FTE, really.
There's nothing 5.2 makes
application do any differently.
The only thing is sometimes
you attach a volume,
and it doesn't come online
'cause it's not unlocked yet.
So basically, disk zero S2 gets consumed,
and disk one gets produced,
and there's a core storage driver
in the kernel that's doing that.
So that's what we have.
How do we get there?
'Cause we want it to be
very smooth for users.
We want them to click turn it on,
and we do make them reboot
and type their password.
Derek did not mention that
you can actually just power
off on that very first reboot,
and we'll go ahead and
turn off FTE for you.
After that,
then you have to go to the recovery OS.
So we have your HFS volume,
and we shrink it a little bit,
and then we basically wrap
around it-- there's a tiny
bit of space at the beginning,
fortunately, with HFS--we wrap around
it core storage metadata.
So we take--your HFS now
has some free space,
and we go ahead and make
it into a core storage.
And when we reboot,
the core storage driver comes up,
and once we've made sure that you typed
in your password successfully at reboot,
we start encrypting your data.
And we encrypt your data
128 megabytes at a time.
We basically take a
lockout on that segment.
We encrypt it, but we write it into a
different part of the disk.
And so we basically slide this
window throughout the disk so
that at any given moment in time,
if you want to access a
logical block of your HFS,
it's either encrypted or not encrypted,
and we move that slowly over.
If there is a crash,
we haven't erased the old data yet,
and so we can go ahead and start over
on the most recent 128 megabyte segment
if the computer happens to crash.
Let's talk about the keys.
How do we set up the keys so that you
can do the unlock with multiple secrets?
First of all,
we generate a random volume key,
so 128 bits of just random stuff
that we get of our dev random,
and that is what we start
-- that's the low level.
Each block is encrypted with that data.
We also, for indirection purposes,
we do a key encrypting key.
You'll see how that works in a second.
And each user record,
whether that's sort of a real
user like me or Deric or sort of a
role user like the recovery users,
they each get a copy of
the key encrypting key.
So if you have -- you know a secret,
you can unlock the key encrypting key.
The key encrypting key
can unlock the volume key.
So let's take a little look
at what that would be like.
So Deric comes along.
He types in his password.
And we run it through a thing called
PBKDF2 with a lot of iterations.
And then we get a passphrase drive key.
Now, obviously,
we didn't store that anywhere,
but we can use it to decode
the key encrypting key.
There's one copy that Deric has,
and he can unlock it with his secret.
And then we have a hash that
makes sure that we got it correct.
And then we use that to
decrypt the volume key.
This allows us to do I/O to the disk,
the encrypting and the decrypting.
What's nice about this is that
if we want to add another user,
we just set up that hierarchy
again for the second user.
Nothing about Deric's setup is changed,
and we have an indirection so
that we can change passwords,
and we can also change out the
volume key from underneath.
We're not currently doing that,
but that is something that we've
architected it to be able to do.
So we have, I mentioned,
these different types of user records.
Most common is going to be your OS user.
It stays in sync with the OS.
So if your user has a
passphrase or a password,
even if it's a terrible one like puppies,
then
It's going to be enabled on the full
disk encryption part of the disk.
So if you don't have a password,
we will not copy that
user down to the disk.
But if you do have a password,
we're going to go ahead and enable it.
And in general,
all users are enabled all the time.
So that there's a synchronization between
that so you don't add a user and then,
oh, I forgot to add them to the disk.
We just try to do that
automatically for you.
We also have what's
called disk passphrase.
So that's great for a disk
that doesn't have an OS on it.
How many people are using
a Mac Pro every day?
Okay, so how many of you have more
than one disk in your Mac Pro?
Okay, you guys are pretty good.
So you could have your secondary
disk if you didn't have any OSs.
If it's like on my --
I don't have Mac Pros,
but if I did,
they'd have a lot of OSs on them.
But if you have a data disk,
then you can go ahead and encrypt
that disk and have it used from,
say, Time Machine through your USB stick,
et cetera.
So that's a different
type of password record,
and if you boot it up, you'll see, like,
a big disk,
and it'll say "disk password," and
then you type in your disk password.
It's sort of a slightly different
model than the OS password.
If there's an OS on the volume,
it's generally a better experience
to use the OS-synchronized passwords.
Then we also have this
personal recovery key,
which Deric talked about,
but we also have an
institutional recovery key,
so you can install a
public key on your system,
and when you turn on FileVault 2,
we'll go ahead and make a secret
that can unlock the disk and we'll
encrypt it with the public key,
and we'll store that.
So if you have the private key back
home in your super-safe system,
if that--you know,
if I were to leave Apple and
somebody wanted to decrypt
my disk after I left Apple,
they could take my computer,
and they could take Apple's private key,
and they could bring them together
with the appropriate Disk Util
command line and unlock that volume.
So that's kind of an institutional
feature so that you can
have thousands of machines.
They're all unlockable
by a single private key.
That also disables the personal
recovery key in the UI,
which will prevent your customers or
the people you support from archiving
their personal recovery keys with Apple,
which you probably don't want,
depending on your security policies.
So we have all this great encryption,
lots of keys.
As a bonus for this,
we get sort of cryptographic wipe,
a really fast, you know,
I just want a split-second,
wipe-out access to this disk.
So I mentioned--so how
are we gonna do this?
We have multiple keys,
and they're variable size,
and they move around the disk,
as it turns out.
So what we do is we actually
take all of your metadata,
things like your user pictures and
your usernames and even their password
hints that we display at EFI Login.
EFI Login is basically a slideshow.
It's kind of scary if you look inside.
But the--but it's very clever,
and it looks very beautiful.
So we have all these nice,
rich UI elements, and they're actually
stored in the metadata,
of course, storage,
and we want those things to be gone if
you want to quickly erase your disk.
You don't even want to
know whose disk it was.
And so we basically
encrypt all of that data,
including your secrets that are
encrypted with your password.
So if I know my password,
then I need the metadata
to get to the volume key,
right?
There's the multi-step unlock.
So we take all that metadata,
and we encrypt it with the wipe key.
So this wipe key sits
actually on the disk.
It's clear text on the disk.
And the idea is you can
eliminate the wipe key,
and then all you're left
with is this encrypted data.
So if I know my password,
I can't unlock my disk because
the wipe key has destroyed it.
Now, if it's SSD,
when I destroy the wipe key, eh,
who knows whether it's really destroyed,
so I still recommend multiple
pass secure erase afterwards.
But you get about 80% of the value very
quickly by destroying the wipe key.
Let's talk about key security.
How do we make the password
secure and then how do we also
make the crypto that we do secure
so that it is harder to attack?
First of all,
there's a couple types of attacks.
There's password attacks.
You take a dictionary and just encrypt
every single word in the dictionary,
hash every key in the dictionary,
and you try to unlock this volume.
Can I unlock?
There's also algorithm attacks.
AES-128, AES-256.
There's been some cryptographic research.
And there's, you know,
a few little -- they're kind
of nibbling away at the edges
of is it really -- you know,
what's -- how secure is it?
And it's still pretty secure.
But they're definitely
nibbling away at the edges.
If you reduce it a little bit,
I'll talk about you can --
you may be able to attack it.
Our goal in full disk encryption is to
increase the cost of any attack against
a particular volume and in particular to
make sure that we don't have one attack
that can apply to multiple volumes.
So first of all,
let's talk about password attacks.
These are pretty
straightforward to understand.
If I have a simple password like puppies,
then it's pretty easy for you to try
that password and maybe a few other
common passwords and unlock my disk.
So the worst case is if all of the
passwords were hashed the same way,
you guys could go out and make
a huge lookup table of all the
hashes of all the passwords and
then you'd be able to figure out,
oh, hey, look, here's all the hashes
of all the passwords.
I am going to now -- if I happen to
find any file vault encrypted computers,
I will say, oh, look,
this hash matches this giant table.
We definitely do not want that.
That's the worst case.
So we're going to talk about
how to solve that problem.
We also have the general problem of just
-- there's a lot of computers out there.
I can go on EC2 and get myself
like a supercomputer for a day
and do a lot of password hashing.
So we've got to make that expensive.
You've got to assume the
attacker has everything.
They've got your metadata with all
the password encrypted keys and
they've got your encrypted keys.
So they're holding on to the
encrypted data and then attacking
the little metadata trying to
-- once they break the metadata,
then they can go and read your data.
And, you know,
especially with cloud computing,
that whole time, money,
computing resources,
who's your adversary,
they may have a lot of
ability to crack your system.
So number one thing we do
is do a lot of iterations.
So it takes a while for any
particular password to be hashed.
We also salt every single password.
We try to calibrate even over time.
Every time you change your password,
we say on this computer,
how fast can we -- let's make it cost at
least a tenth of a second of real time
to try to hash through this password.
So that even if you do have EC2,
you've got to -- it's going to take you,
you know, a while as you clunk through
trying all these passwords.
Then, as I mentioned,
we store a hash of the key
encrypting key to see whether
or not you got the value right.
So that's a little bit of a challenge.
So we're going to try to do that.
We're going to try to make sure
that we get the value right.
So that's another way,
because the key encrypting key is random,
that also makes this unique.
And you're not going to be able to
have a giant lookup table and say,
oh, I found this computer and I know
that if his password was puppies,
all the computers that have
puppies in their passwords are
going to have the same hash.
No.
That's not how it works.
Every key encrypting key is unique.
Every salt of every password is unique.
And we do a lot of iterations.
disappears into random numbers and
that is all you have on your disk
and it's unique to your user record
and if somebody wants to attack it,
they can and if you have a bad password,
they will crack it.
But if your password is decent,
it's going to take them a while.
That is our goal.
We cannot eliminate attacks but
we can make them more expensive.
Let's talk about algorithm attacks.
I mentioned, first of all,
if you can actually instrument a machine
where the bits are in the registers,
you can kind of see when the
power rails go high and stuff.
Those are pretty cool.
But you can also,
if you say AES 128 has 13 rounds at a
certain state of mixing and you take
that down to nine rounds and you're like,
oh, look, at nine rounds,
it doesn't mix it fully and I can kind of
figure out what the key is without having
to guess every single possible key.
There's also attacks where you
have two keys that are related in a
certain way and you can do some math
and kind of -- you don't know one of
the keys but you know the other one
and you do some math and then you
figure out what the other key is.
These first three are
sort of -- you know,
these are known problems but
they're not practical attacks.
They aren't things that people were
going to -- you're not going to
have related keys in the real world,
for example.
And unless your AES implementation
is truly broken,
it's going to be doing the
correct number of rounds.
But they're very interesting
for cryptographic applications.
And you can see that from a graphic
standpoint because once you've
broken a related key attack,
then you might think, oh, interesting.
There's like a -- you know,
because it's trying to do all
this mixing in a way that's
really hard to go backwards.
But if you find some mistakes,
some of these other attacks can help
you maybe extend out to the full AES.
Known plaintext and chosen plaintext
are somewhat more practical.
Your HFS volume structures
are pretty standard.
So that's a known plaintext that's
on every core storage volume.
So we want to make sure that that doesn't
look similar across multiple volumes.
There's also big blocks of zeros and
popular pictures on the Internet.
All that kind of stuff is going
to be on people's hard drives.
Chosen plaintext, if I send you an email
with an attachment,
I can probably put a plaintext
into your system and get
it encrypted with your key.
And if that plaintext is like
super magic -- I think there was
a crypto system once where if you
put the right plaintext in there,
it would just -- it would basically come
out as like a block of zeros because
it was XORing itself or something.
But anyway,
you can insert known tricky plaintext.
And then you try to find them
wherever they end up on the disk.
And you can go and attack them that way.
So we want to make that difficult.
And the way we make that
difficult is we've got to make
the ciphertexts different every
place they appear on your volume.
So if you have 50 copies of something,
like a block of zeros,
they're different at every point.
And also, if you store the same
text on different volumes,
even if it's the same offset,
you want it to be unique.
So the way we do that is for
within one volume for every block,
we feed in the logical block address.
So that will kind of change
the crypto algorithm.
We tweak it,
feed it in as the initialization vector.
And we say, okay,
kind of start over here.
And then that will make the
output look different based on the
location within a single volume.
And then across multiple volumes
-- I already mentioned that
we have a random volume key.
So every volume is going
to have a different key.
We also feed in --
Derek talked about the mixing.
You know, you take each -- because AES is
only defined for 16 bytes.
It's like this tiny little thing.
And that's why they have AES XTS.
AES 16 bytes at a time.
And then XTS kind of swirls,
mixes it all together
across those blocks.
So that even if you change a
bit at the end of your block,
it will actually have an
effect at the beginning.
And we can tweak XTS also so
that its mixing algorithm is kind
of offset within its abilities.
And we do that by feeding in a
hash of the volume key plus the
volume UUID just to kind of make it,
again, provide as much uniqueness as
we can to the encryption engine.
Here's a picture.
Plain text on top, ciphertext on bottom.
In particular, there's a per block tweak.
And then there is the mixing tweak
that applies to the whole volume as
well -- excuse me -- as the volume key.
Talk a little bit about the tools that we
have to manipulate FileVault 2 volumes.
So in particular, DiskUtil,
many of you are familiar with this.
There's a subverb called CoreStorage,
which you can abbreviate as CS.
And you can now encrypt and decrypt
in Mountain Lion existing volumes.
So if you already have a volume
turned on for whatever reason you've
been playing around with DiskUtil,
you can encrypt and
decrypt an existing volume.
You can also delete a volume,
which I don't think was there before.
In Lion,
if you're not as familiar with this,
there were create and create volume to
set up sort of a logical volume group,
and then you can have
logical volumes in it.
And also,
you can take an existing HFS volume
and convert it over to CoreStorage,
optionally with a passphrase.
That's one way to turn on FTE.
Now, this way of turning on
FTE is great for data disks,
but here's the big thing that
everybody's been wanting for,
which is full FileVault
2 on the command line.
So we have this tool called...
I can't take direct credit for this,
but I did provide lots of advice.
So using all the same
libraries as the UI,
and it actually has a few extra
features that the UI does not have.
So number one thing is
it's got the recovery key,
and then it also can do nice
things like give you your
status of how encrypted you are.
So basically you type in
your pass -- you enable it,
type in your pass phrase,
and then you reboot.
So that will take you
through the whole process.
If you power off after the first reboot,
it will not take effect, et cetera,
et cetera.
So this is great if you want to command
line automate turning on FDE FileVault 2.
So we have some other examples here.
You can add existing users.
You know, I can add Deric,
and I can add our -- add his boss, Brad.
But then later maybe I don't want
Brad to be on my computer anymore.
So I can actually delete
him from the OS first,
and then I tell FDE setup, hey,
go check the OS records,
and if there's anything on
FDE that's not supposed to be there,
get rid of it.
FDE setup itself doesn't delete anything,
but it will synchronize and
it will notice deletions.
And then finally you can also
turn off from the command line,
which you could do before,
but it's nice to have
it all in one command.
Also, super bonus,
if you're running remote desktop,
you can, in fact,
set up a giant pipe command line,
and it will accept XML and
it will spit out XML,
and you can go out and FileVault
2 that person's computer.
Magic FDE setup command.
One more little tool.
I want to talk about a
problem that people have and
actually more of a solution.
It's a really cool thing.
So data at rest.
FileVault 2 is designed for data at rest.
But what is data at rest?
I know that data at rest
is when my computer,
like take my hard drive out.
That data is at rest.
And that's going to be
expensive to attack.
But it turns out that most of us don't
take our computers apart that often.
And most of us don't turn
our computers off that often.
And unfortunately,
RAM is still sitting there
with the volume key in it.
And so very clever attackers
have figured out numerous ways to
basically pop your RAM out and then...
Suck out the volume key.
So sleep is not maximally secure.
And we have this great feature on some
of the newest portables called standby.
And standby actually writes
your RAM to a file on disk.
But for usability reasons,
we want to be able to open the
lid and just go back right away.
We actually stash a key so that we
can unlock that Hibernate image and
get you back your volume key into RAM.
So standby doesn't change anything
about making sleep more secure.
Also, standby doesn't always kick in.
Standby,
if you've got plugged in AC power,
if you've got USB devices plugged in,
standby doesn't kick in.
But standby is pretty
close to what you want.
Because what you want is you want
everything on disk encrypted in a way
that you with your secret can decrypt it,
but an attacker cannot.
And with no secret stashed off in the
special hardware to bring it back.
So we have the PM set command line.
This is in the PM set man page.
Don't worry.
You don't have to write
this down right now.
But destroy FV key on standby.
That is not the default,
but it will make your
machine more secure.
It will make you type
your password twice.
Once to unlock your kind of
Hibernate reanimation process.
And then again at your screen lock,
which we always force
screen lock to be on.
Hibernate mode 25 is also there.
That will basically force you
to go into hibernation right
away every time you go to sleep.
There's different options
that you can pass.
But conceptually destroy
FV key on standby and force
hibernation on every sleep.
This will give you every
time you close your lid,
you'll go into a highly secure
mode where basically you have to
take apart your computer and start
attacking the keys to really get at it.
Final slides here,
requests and investigations.
First of all, no promises.
I'm just trying to make
your bug reports better.
People want authenticated reboot.
They want a whole bunch of
stuff with recovery keys.
They want to be able to rekey.
They want more OS X server integration,
although I'm glad I will send
back to the people that did
all that work for FD setup that
you guys are very happy so far.
Just, I mean,
happier than you were before.
And finally, mandatory FileVault 2.
A lot of people want to kind
of force it to be turned on.
Okay, brings us to our little
wrap-up slides here.
Paul Danbold is our evangelist.
There's a filesystem programming
guide where you can get some of
the latest on which APIs to use.
And the developer forums are always
there to help you help each other.
We have some excellent
sessions on responsiveness,
getting things off the main thread.
Tomorrow morning at 9 a.m., power
management and energy-efficient software.
Learn how to really
optimize for battery life.
Before you all leave,
performance and energy
consumption go hand in hand.
The filesystem is fast,
but if you use it less,
it's better for everybody.
Use our APIs.
We are always going to
be making them better.
And beware of unexpected delays.
Don't do UI on the main thread.
Thank you all for coming.
I/O, I/O on the main thread.